docs/docs/usage/getting_started/intro.md, before:

---
slug: /
title: Introduction
sidebar_position: 1
---

# PyMUSAS

**Py**thon **M**ultilingual **U**crel **S**emantic **A**nalysis **S**ystem, it currently is a rule based token level semantic tagger which can be added to any spaCy pipeline. The current tagger system is flexible enough to support any semantic tagset, however the tagset we have concentrated on and give examples for throughout is the [Ucrel Semantic Analysis System (USAS)](https://ucrel.lancs.ac.uk/usas/).

## Reading the documentation

How the documentation website is split between the Usage and API pages:

* [Usage](/) - The usage pages contain tutorials, how-to-guides, and explanations.
* [API](/api/spacy_api/taggers/rule_based) - Are the docstrings of the PyMUSAS library, best pages to look at if you want to know exactly what a class / function / attribute does in more technical detail. These do contain examples, but the examples are more like minimum working examples rather than real world examples.


## Future Plans

In the future we hope to expand the documentation so that we can cover more languages, support Multi Word Expressions (MWE), and incorporate vector based methods. All of these future plans can be seen in more detail in our project road map (project road map currently under development).

Commit message:

Added that we support MWE and have models that can be downloaded

docs/docs/usage/getting_started/intro.md, after:

---
slug: /
title: Introduction
sidebar_position: 1
---

# PyMUSAS

**Py**thon **M**ultilingual **U**crel **S**emantic **A**nalysis **S**ystem, is a rule based token and Multi Word Expression (MWE) semantic tagger. The tagger can support any semantic tagset, however the tagset we have concentrated on and released pre-configured spaCy components for is the [Ucrel Semantic Analysis System (USAS)](https://ucrel.lancs.ac.uk/usas/).

PyMUSAS currently support 8 different languages with pre-configured spaCy components that can be downloaded, each language has it's own [guide on how to tag text using PyMUSAS](/usage/how_to/tag_text). Below we show the languages supported, if the model for that language supports MWE identification and tagging (all languages support token level tagging by default), and size of the model:

| Language (BCP 47 language code) | MWE Support | Size |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Mandarin Chinese (cmn) | :heavy_check_mark: | 1.28MB |
| Welsh (cy) | :heavy_check_mark: | 1.09MB |
| Spanish, Castilian (es) | :heavy_check_mark: | 0.20MB |
| French (fr) | :x: | 0.08MB |
| Indonesian (id) | :x: | 0.24MB |
| Italian (it) | :heavy_check_mark: | 0.50MB |
| Dutch, Flemish (nl) | :x: | 0.15MB |
| Portuguese (pt) | :heavy_check_mark: | 0.27MB |

## Reading the documentation

How the documentation website is split between the Usage and API pages:

* [Usage](/) - The usage pages contains how-to-guides, and explanations.
* [API](/api/spacy_api/taggers/rule_based) - Are the docstrings of the PyMUSAS library, best pages to look at if you want to know exactly what a class / function / attribute does in more technical detail. These do contain examples, but the examples are more like minimum working examples rather than real world examples.


## Future Plans

Our [road map](https://github.com/UCREL/pymusas/blob/main/ROADMAP.md) contains the most up to date future plans for PyMUSAS.
